# DescribeThat!

A SaaS product created for [W4156 Advanced Software Engineering](http://www.cs.columbia.edu/~junfeng/21sp-w4156/) at Columbia University in spring 2021.

Team members:

- lyp2106, Lauren Pham
- vn2287, Vishnu Nair
- xw2765, Sheron Wang

[Link](https://describe-that.herokuapp.com) to final iteration on Heroku.  
[Link](https://w4156.herokuapp.com) to iteration 2 on Heroku.  
[Link](https://youtu.be/_Xu9e_M3s20) to project pitch given on February 25, 2021.  
[Link](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FD_nxDqBhsU) to project demo given on April 15, 2021.

1. Overview
2. User stories
3. Final status update from iter-2
4. Running DescribeThat! locally
5. Running Cucumber and RSpec tests locally
6. Demonstration paths

## 1. Overview

> **DescribeThat!** is a community-driven platform where describers add audio descriptions (AD) to YouTube videos for visually impaired persons (VIPs).

While other platforms that provide users the ability to add AD for YouTube videos exist, **DescribeThat!** uniquely gives describers the option to write text descriptions in addition to the traditional mode of recording spoken AD. **DescribeThat!** uses Google Text-To-Speech to generate AD from these text descriptions written by describers. The traditional option to record AD is also supported by **DescribeThat!**.

> The option to write text descriptions to be generated into audio by Google TTS is uniquely inclusive to potential describers who otherwise would not contribute AD due to lack of equipment, differing verbal ability, or plain preference.

**DescribeThat!** depends on **Auth0**, **YouTube API**, and **Google TTS API**, and **AWS SDK** to connect to an **S3 bucket** set up on Vishnu's personal server.

## 2. User stories

There are two users which have different stories: **VIPs** (visually impaired persons) and **describers**.

### The **VIP** story

A VIP can:
- Find a video by searching for it via its YouTube link
- Find a video on the home page, which is a list of videos that already have at least one AD track
- Access, play, favorite, and upvote the video's existing AD if they exist
- Request or upvote another user's request for AD for a specific video and in a specific language
- Comment on a description track

### The describer story
 A describer can:
 - Find a video by searching for it via its YouTube link
 - Find a video on the home page, which is a list of videos that already have at least one AD track
 - Select a language in which to describe
 - Write or record multiple inline and or extended descriptions for each track
 - Publish and unpublish audio descriptions
- Comment on a description track

### The user story

A user can be a VIP and/or a describer. A describer is required to be a user, while a VIP is not required to be a user unless they want to request AD, favorite a video, upvote a description track, or comment on a description track. **Describe-That!** depends on **Auth0**, so users are redirected to **Auth0**'s login page to login. Upon first login, the user is stored in a local user database and the username becomes **Auth0**'s default username, which is the username before the domain name of the email they use to log into **Auth0**. When a user is logged in, they can see their dashboard, which includes all of the videos that they've favorited, all of the descriptions tracks they've written, all of the description tracks they've upvoted, all of the videos for which they have requested AD and in which language, and all of their comments.

## 3. Final status update from iter-2

Here follows a list of final items to implement:

1. ~Allow users to favorite AD tracks, which will then show up on their dashboard.~ **Implemented.**
2. ~Allow custom volume management for AD and original video audio.~ **Implemented.**
3. ~Allow users to upvote AD tracks.~ **Implemented.**
4. ~Allow users to add comments and comment replies to AD tracks.~ **Implemented.**
5. ~Validate descriptions so that there are no descriptions that overlap at any time.~ **Implemented.**
8. ~Optimize interface for screen readers.~ **Implemented.**

## 4. Running DescribeThat! locally

To the TAs: we are hoping that you don't have to run the application locally for ease on both of our parts. However, if you want to run the application locally and haven't received API credentials from us already, please let us know and we will get them to you in a secure way. (We should have already submitted them in a file on Courseworks.)

To mitigate the need for you to run the application locally, we have served code coverage generated by SimpleCov as a static file which you can access on Heroku [here](https://describe-that.herokuapp.com/coverage). Every time we run Cucumber and RSpec to generate the coverage report and before we push the static file to production, we manually delete all source code information from the report for security. As of midnight on 21 April 2021, this static file will have the code coverage generated by running Cucumber and RSpec on the source code submitted for the final submission deadline.

> We hope that providing this coverage report on Heroku will eliminate your need to run the app locally. However, if you still need to run the app locally, follow the following instructions:

Once you have cloned this repository and you are in the `w4156-describe-that` directory, run:

```
$ bundle install
$ bundle exec rake webpacker:install
$ rake db:create
$ rake db:migrate
$ rake db:seed
```

> If you encounter an error like **_An error occurred while installing unf_ext (0.0.7.7), and Bundler cannot continue. Make sure that `gem install unf_ext -v '0.0.7.7' --source 'https://rubygems.org/'` succeeds before bundling._** and you are on Mac OS, you may need to install xcode. Do this by running `$ xcode-select --install`.

> If you encounter an error like **Errno::ENOENT (No such file or directory - the ffprobe binary could not be found** and you are on Mac OS, you may need to install ffmpeg. Do this by running `$ brew install ffmpeg`.

**DescribeThat!** has one dependency for generating TTS that cannot be installed via `bundle install`: `FFmpeg`.  You should be able to grab it from whatever package manager you use (`brew`/`apt`/`scoop`/whatever).  

You will need to fill in the list of local env variables located at `w4156-describe-that/config/local_env.yml` with the credentials we have given you for the API and S3 services. If we have not given them to you yet, please let us know and we will get them to you in a secure way.

You should be remain on branch main. You should be able to access the app in your browser of choice at [localhost::3000](https://localhost::3000).

## 5. Running Cucumber and RSpec tests locally

As we are testing some features related to Javascript, we enabled the Selenium driver in Capybara, and thus the **Firefox browser** is needed. Please install Firefox and get all credentials before running the Cucumber tests. When Cucumber encounters its first Javascript scenario, Firefox will be opened by the terminal and run the scenario automatically.

Additionally, **sometimes the steps fail because the components rendered by Javascript haven't been created by the time Cucumber does the checking, or alternatively our team has found discrepancies in the load time for FFmpeg to generate the AD**. We have run the tests several times and all steps pass when the response time is under the maximum wait time we have specified, which is 60 seconds. We expect all steps to eventually pass given enough time, so you can rerun the Cucumber tests until all of them pass. You could also increase the max wait time in `features/support/env.rb` (line 48) which is already 60 seconds and try again. During our final run of the tests before the final submission, we logged the program outputs of `rake cucumber` and `rake spec` to two files in the root directory: `rake_cucumber_results` and `rake_spec_results`, so you can also see our expected output there.

You can run all Cucumber tests using `$ rake cucumber`.
You can run all rspec tests using `$ rake spec`. Note that because of our uniqueness constraints and foreign keys, between every run of either Cucumber or Rspec, you must also reset the temp_test database using `$ rake db:migrate:reset RAILS_ENV=temp_test `.

## 6. Demonstration paths

We have provided a few demonstration paths that you can check out at the links below. They are not included in the interface navigation because they are only meant to demonstrate various details about the backend implementation, primarily for TA grading purposes.

1. **Code coverage**. You can see the code coverage generated by SimplCov upon running Cucumber and RSpace [here](https://w4156.herokuapp.com/coverage).
2. **Users**. The list of users [here](https://w4156.herokuapp.com/user) is just to show you the users upon your testing. We don't intend for users to actually see the list of all users.
3. **Recently searched and undescribed videos**. Our home page is an index of videos with published audio descriptions. However, the page [here](https://w4156.herokuapp.com/video/undescribed) is an index of recently searched videos without published audio descriptions. By "recent", we just mean that the videos here have been searched at the main "Enter YouTube URL" search box _at any point_. Upon the first search, the YouTube video gets entered in as a video record. When a user later searches for that same YouTube video, they are getting that video record from the database as opposed to the first time when it was fetched from the YouTube API and saved in the video table. When a user later publishes an audio description for that YouTube video, it becomes visible on the home page.
